---
title: "Quitting Coffee - Week 2"
date: "2025-07-24"
---

Its now been 14 days since I have quit drinking coffee. I've also been able to more aggressively wean on how much tea I've drunk in the last few days, going from 2 black teas + a green tea or two, all the way down to just one green tea.\
&nbsp;

The initial burst of clear mindedness and productivity seemed to wear off a bit as I cut down more and more. On days 4 and 5 I began to feel more fatigued and even developed mild headaches as I made the jump from 2 black teas to 1. I still find I am somewhat more productive, but nothing like that first weekend when I immediately cut coffee. In particular with reading, I found it much easier to read and stay off technology during those first few days, something I have now heavily reversed on. My work is still unaffected, though having more energy mid-day is certainly helpful. Additionally.,, the irritability has also worn off a bit.\
&nbsp;

I don't think I'm less anxious than before, but I do think I'm more mindful of when I am anxious. I was caffeinated for so long, any sway one way or the other would be hard for me to attribute to anything less than an excessive amount of coffee. But now when I genuinely feel anxious or worried, its much more obvious to me why and how.\
&nbsp;

For a brief time towards the end of week 1 and the start of week 2, I began crashing in the middle of the day again. It wasn't as bad as it was before, but it was noticeable. Thankfully now that is starting to fade away as well. I also haven't been exercising enough, which tends to have a big impact on this as well.\
&nbsp;

Overall what I've noticed is an increase in sensitivity to caffein, far faster than I expected. Before, a black tea would barely register for me as a boost, while now it can make me a bit wired. Even a green tea has a more stimulating effect than it did prior. I also notice I have a harder time sleeping from drinking tea, though the quality of my sleep feels a lot better.\
&nbsp;

One thing that has helped me move off caffeinated tea is herbal teas. I got a new box of chamomile recently (always one of my favorites), and this guava tea that has a nice flavor and feel. It gives me a similar enjoyable feeling without the added caffein.\
&nbsp;

My goal for week 3 is to go a full week without caffein, maybe extending into week 4. I still don't plan to quit caffein forever, I enjoy tea too much for that, and I refuse to give up at least an occasional cup of coffee. But if I feel noticeably better on a day to day with no caffein, then maybe that should be the trend going forward.\
&nbsp;
