---
title: "Quitting Coffee - Week 3"
date: "2025-07-31"
---

Its now been 3 weeks since I've quit drinking coffee. Its also been about a week since I've had any caffein at all (aside from a slice of amazing chocolate cake). Here's how I've been feeling.\
&nbsp;

At the start of this week when I made the leap from a green tea a day to no caffein at all, I felt it strongly. I had some headaches, felt sluggish, and was somewhat depressive. The jump from 20mg (though I tend to over steep my tea at hot temperatures, so it was probably more) to 0mg was far stronger than the jump from 200mg to 100mg, which I thought was funny. For most of week 2 I overall felt worse than I had before, and that continued at the start of week 3.\
&nbsp;

By now though, I am starting to feel more normalized. I have sort of reached a baseline where the reduced amount of caffein feels normal, so I am less aware of the difference it has made. I seem to be more clearheaded and have an easier time focusing, and I have way more energy in the middle of the day. My goal to stop crashing in the afternoon everyday has been achieved. I also get more tired at night, and have an easier time getting up in the morning. Its not perfect, I still find myself awake late at night sometimes, but there are many other things I can do to improve this (less technology at night, work out more, etc).\
&nbsp;

For a while after I quit, I had a flat mood and found myself much more irritable. It wasn't as though I was depressed, but I certainly felt less excitement, joy, and reward for doing daily activities. Luckily the irritability has faded, and the flat mood is starting to slowly go away. I generally feel more balanced throughout the day than I did before. I very strangely think I have gotten more anxious than I was previously however. I don't consider myself a particularly anxious person, but at times I would feel it. But since quitting I feel it a lot more when it comes to social situations. In regards to just about everything else, not so much.\
&nbsp;

One positive impact that I did not anticipate is an increased motivation to improve other aspects of my life. I can't fully explain it, but I think the increased focus and reduced gain from typical distracting activities has gotten me to both think more about what I could be doing, and commit more to routine. It has only been 3 weeks, so its far too early to say, but it could very well progress to something meaningfully impactful for my life.\
&nbsp;

Again, I'm not quitting caffein forever. I'll still want occasional coffees and more-than-occasional teas eventually, and chocolate is going NOWHERE. But I am going to keep this no caffein approach going for another week or two at least since I am noticing positive changes. And I genuinely think I will stop drinking coffee daily in the future like I had become accustom to. At the very least, I like how I feel better now that I'm off it.\
&nbsp;
